.\" $Id$
.tr ~
.TH PROLOGDB 5WN "Jun 2021" "WordNet 3.1" "WordNet\(tm File Formats"
.SH NAME
wn_\*.pl \- description of Prolog database files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files \fBwn_\fR\fI*\fR\fB.pl\fR contain the WordNet database in a
prolog-readable format.  A prolog interface to WordNet is not
implemented.

The prolog database is very large and may take many minutes to load
into the Prolog workspace.  A separate file has been created for each
WordNet relation giving the user the ability to load only those parts
of the database that they are interested.

See \fBFILES\fR, below, for a list of the database files and
.BR wndb (5WN)
and
.BR wninput (5WN) 
for detailed descriptions of the various WordNet relations (referred to
as \fIoperators\fR in this manual page).
.SS File Format
Each prolog database file contains information corresponding to the
synsets and word senses contained in the WordNet database.  In the
prolog version of the database, the \fIsynset_id\fRs (defined below)
are used as unique synset identifiers.

Each line of a file contains an operator that corresponds to a WordNet
relation.  All lines with the same \fIoperator\fR value are stored in
the file \fBwn_\fR\fIoperator\fR\fB.pl\fR.

The general format of a line in a prolog database file is as follows:

.RS
.nf
\fIoperator\fB(\fIfield1\fB,\fI~~...~~\fB,\fIfieldn\fB).\fR
.fi
.RE

Each line contains the name of the operator, followed by a left
parenthesis, a comma-separated list of fields, a right parenthesis,
and a period.  Note there are no spaces, and each line is terminated
with a newline character. 
.SS Operators
Each WordNet relation is represented in a separate file by
\fIoperator\fR name.  Some operators are reflexive (i.e. the "reverse"
relation is implicit).  So, for example, if \fBx\fR is a hypernym of
\fBy\fR, \fBy\fR is necessarily a hyponym of \fBx\fR.  In the prolog
database, reflected pointers are usually implied for semantic
relations.

Semantic relations are represented by a pair of \fIsynset_id\fRs, in
which the first \fIsynset_id\fR is generally the source of the
relation and the second is the target.  If two pairs
\fIsynset_id\fR\fB,\fR\fIw_num\fR are present, the operator represents
a lexical relation between word forms.

.nf
\fBs(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,'\fIword\fB',\fIss_type\fB,\fIsense_number\fB,\fItag_count\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
A \fBs\fR operator is present for every word sense in WordNet.  In
\fBwn_s.pl\fR, \fIw_num\fR specifies the word number for \fIword\fR in
the synset.
.RE

.nf
\fBsk(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,'\fIsense_key\fB').
.fi
.RS
.PP
A \fBsk\fR operator is present for every word sense in WordNet. This gives
the WordNet sense key for each word sense.
.RE

.nf
\fBg(\fIsynset_id\fB,'\fIgloss\fB').
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBg\fR operator specifies the gloss for a synset.  
.RE

.nf
\fBsyntax(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,\fIsyntax\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBsyntax\fR operator specifies the syntactic marker for a given word sense
if one is specified.
.RE

.nf
\fBhyp(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBhyp\fR operator specifies that the second synset is a
hypernym of the first synset.  This relation holds for nouns and
verbs.  The reflexive operator, hyponym, implies that the first
synset is a hyponym of the second synset.
.RE

.nf
\fBins(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBins\fR operator specifies that the first synset is an
instance of the second synset. This relation holds for nouns. The reflexive
operator, has_instance, implies that the second synset is an instance of the
first synset.
.RE

.nf
\fBent(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBent\fR operator specifies that the second synset is
an entailment of first synset.  This relation only holds for verbs.
.RE

.nf
\fBsim(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBsim\fR operator specifies that the second synset is similar in
meaning to the first synset.  This means that the second synset is a
satellite the first synset, which is the cluster head.  This relation
only holds for adjective synsets contained in adjective clusters.
.RE

.nf
\fBmm(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBmm\fR operator specifies that the second synset is a
member meronym of the first synset.  This relation only holds for
nouns.  The reflexive operator, member holonym, can be implied.
.RE

.nf
\fBms(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBms\fR operator specifies that the second synset is a
substance meronym of the first synset.  This relation only holds for
nouns.  The reflexive operator, substance holonym, can be implied.
.RE

.nf
\fBmp(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBmp\fR operator specifies that the second synset is a
part meronym of the first synset.  This relation only holds for
nouns.  The reflexive operator, part holonym, can be implied.
.RE

.nf
\fBder(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBder\fR operator specifies that there exists a reflexive lexical
morphosemantic relation between the first and second synset terms
representing derivational morphology.
.RE

.nf
\fBcls(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,\fIclass_type\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBcls\fR operator specifies that the first synset has been
classified as a member of the class represented by the second synset. Either of
the \fIw_num\fB's can be 0, reflecting that the pointer is semantic in the
original WordNet database.
.RE

.nf
\fBcs(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBcs\fR operator specifies that the second synset is a cause
of the first synset.  This relation only holds for verbs.
.RE

.nf
\fBvgp(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBvgp\fR operator specifies verb synsets that are similar in
meaning and should be grouped together when displayed in response to a
grouped synset search.
.RE

.nf
\fBat(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBat\fR operator defines the attribute relation between noun and
adjective synset pairs in which the adjective is a value of the noun.
For each pair, both relations are listed (ie. each \fIsynset_id\fR is
both a source and target).
.RE

.nf
\fBant(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBant\fR operator specifies antonymous \fIword\fRs.  This is a
lexical relation that holds for all syntactic categories.  For each
antonymous pair, both relations are listed (ie. each
\fIsynset_id,w_num\fR pair is both a source and target word.)
.RE

.nf
\fBsa(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBsa\fR operator specifies that additional information about the
first word can be obtained by seeing the second word.  This
operator is only defined for verbs and adjectives.  There is no reflexive
relation (ie. it cannot be inferred that the additional information
about the second word can be obtained from the first word).
.RE

.nf
\fBppl(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBppl\fR operator specifies that the adjective first word is a
participle of the verb second word.  The reflexive operator can be
implied. 
.RE

.nf
\fBper(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBper\fR operator specifies two different relations based on the
parts of speech involved.  If the first word is in an adjective
synset, that word pertains to either the noun or adjective second
word.  If the first word is in an adverb synset, that word is derived
from the adjective second word.
.RE

.nf
\fBfr(\fIsynset_id\fB,\fIw_num\fB,\fIf_num\fB).
.fi
.RS
.PP
The \fBfr\fR operator specifies a generic sentence frame for one or
all words in a synset.  The operator is defined only for verbs.
.RE
.SS Field Definitions
A \fIsynset_id\fR is a nine byte field in which the first
byte defines the syntactic category of the synset and the remaining
eight bytes are a \fIsynset_offset\fR, as defined in 
.BR wndb (5WN),
indicating the byte offset in the \fBdata.\fR\fIpos\fR file that
corresponds to the syntactic category.

The syntactic category is encoded as:  

.RS
.nf
\fB1\fR	NOUN
\fB2\fR	VERB
\fB3\fR	ADJECTIVE
\fB4\fR	ADVERB
.fi
.RE

\fIw_num\fR, if present, indicates which word in the synset is being
referred to.  Word numbers are assigned to the \fIword\fR fields in a
synset, from left to right, beginning with 1.  When used to represent
lexical WordNet relations \fIw_num\fR may be 0, indicating that the
relation holds for all words in the synset indicated by the preceding
\fIsynset_id\fR.  See
.BR wninput (5WN)
for a discussion of semantic and lexical relations.

\fIss_type\fR is a one character code indicating the synset type:

.RS
.nf
\fBn\fR	NOUN
\fBv\fR	VERB
\fBa\fR	ADJECTIVE
\fBs\fR	ADJECTIVE~SATELLITE
\fBr\fR	ADVERB
.fi
.RE

\fIsense_number\fR specifies the sense number of the word, within the
part of speech encoded in the \fIsynset_id\fR, in the WordNet
database.

\fIword\fR is the ASCII text of the word as entered in the synset by
the lexicographer. The text of the word is case sensitive.  An adjective
\fIword\fR is immediately followed by a syntactic marker if one was
specified in the lexicographer file.

\fIsense_key\fR specifies the WordNet sense key for a given word sense. See
.BR senseidx (5WN)
for the specifications.

\fIsyntax\fR is the syntactic marker for a given adjective sense if one
was specified in the input files. See
.BR wninput (5WN)
for a list of the syntactic markers. Note that in the Prolog database, the
parentheses are not included.

Each synset has a \fIgloss\fR that contains a definition and one or
more example sentences.

\fIclass_type\fR indicates whether the classification
relation represented is topical, usage, or regional, as indicated by
the \fIclass_type\fR of \fBt\fR, \fBu\fR, or \fBr\fR, respectively.

\fIf_num\fR specifies the generic sentence frame number for word
\fIw_num\fR in the synset indicated by \fIsynset_id\fR.  Note that
when \fIw_num\fR is \fB0\fR, the frame number applies to all words in
the synset.  If non-zero, the frame applies to that word in the
synset.

In WordNet, sense numbers are assigned as described in 
.BR wndb (5WN).
\fItag_count\fR is the number of times the sense was tagged in the
Semantic Concordances, and \fB0\fR if it was not instantiated.
.SH NOTES
Since single forward quotes are used to enclose character strings,
single quote characters found in \fIword\fR and \fIgloss\fR fields are
represented as two adjacent single quote characters.

The load time can be greatly reduced by creating "object language"
versions of the files, an option that is supported by some
implementations, such as Quintus Prolog. 
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES (UNIX)
.TP 20
.B WNHOME
Base directory for WordNet.  Default is
\fB/usr/local/WordNet-3.1\fR.
.SH REGISTRY (WINDOWS)
.TP 20
.B HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\eSOFTWARE\eWordNet\e2.1\eWNHome
Base directory for WordNet.  Default is
\fBC:\eProgram~Files\eWordNet\e2.1\fR.
.SH FILES
All files are in \fBWNHOME/prolog\fR on Unix platforms and
\fBWNHome\eprolog\fR on Windows platforms
.TP 20
.B wn_s.pl
synset pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_sk.pl
sense keys
.TP 20
.B wn_syntax.pl
syntactic markers
.TP 20
.B wn_g.pl
gloss pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_hyp.pl
hypernym pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_ins.pl
instance pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_ent.pl
entailment pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_sim.pl
similar pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_mm.pl
member meronym pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_ms.pl
substance meronym pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_mp.pl
part meronym pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_der.pl
derivational morphology pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_cls.pl
class (domain) pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_cs.pl
cause pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_vgp.pl
grouped verb pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_at.pl
attribute pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_ant.pl
antonym pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_sa.pl
see also pointers 
.TP 20
.B wn_ppl.pl
participle pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_per.pl
pertainym pointers
.TP 20
.B wn_fr.pl
frame pointers
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wndb (5WN),
.BR wninput (5WN),
.BR senseidx (5WN),
.BR wngroups (7WN),
.BR wnpkgs (7WN).
